[Use Cases]: Globbing (#4798)
ElektraInitiative/libelektra: doc/usecases/plugins/spec_globbing.md

# Use Case: Specification for REST application communicating with multiple services

## Summary

> - **Title:** Specification for REST application communicating with multiple services

Reviewer: Not needed (removed in later templates)

```suggestion
```

- **Scope:** Configuration
- **Level:** Developer Goal

> - **Actors:** User (usually a application developer)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Actors:** Application developer
```

> - **Brief:** User configures specifcation for configuration of REST application.

Reviewer: Brief is shorter than title.

## Scenarios

- **Precondition:** kdb is installed.

> - **Main success scenario:** Specification is written and stored system wide or user specifc. All services which are added in the configuration need to adhere to this configuration specification.

Reviewer: Please one sentence per line (ideally as itemize).
The use case should be a motivation why globbing is needed, e.g. the user wants to specify the port and url for an unknown number of servers.

> - **Alternative scenario:** User is limited to only using one service if globbing is not used. 

Reviewer: This is not an alternative scenario but an alternative to the use case, which does not need to be written.

```suggestion
- **Alternative scenario:** None.
```

- **Error scenario:** Technical problems while writing the specification.

>   The user is informed about the problem.

Reviewer: Write which globbings are not allowed (what means technical problem). What is with overlaps, e.g. that a specific service has a different configuration?

# Use Case: Specification for REST application communicating with multiple services

## Summary

- **Scope:** Configuration
- **Level:** Developer Goal
- **Actors:** Application developer
- **Brief:** The user wants to specify the port and url for an unknown number of servers.

## Scenarios

- **Precondition:** kdb is installed.
- **Main success scenario:** Specification is written and stored system wide or user specifc. 

> All services which are added in the configuration need to adhere to this configuration specification.

Author: Thanks!

- **Alternative scenario:** None.
- **Error scenario:** In case services have overlapping configuration an error is yielded.
A sample for such overlapping would be `service/#/port` and `service/_/port`.

> The user is informed about the problem / error.

Author: Thanks!

- **Postcondition:** The specification allows configuration for multiple services.
- **Non-functional Constraints:** None.

## Example

> This configuration allows the user to configure multiple services used by the REST application.

Author: Thanks!

It is generic so any service can be configured as dependency e.g. database, message broker, etc.

**Specification:**
```ni
[service/_/port]

> meta:/description = Port of an external service used by the REST application.

Author: Thanks!

meta:/type = unsigned_short
meta:/example = 8080
meta:/default = 8080

[service/_/url]

> meta:/description = Url of an external service used by the REST application.

Author: Thanks!

> # Use Case: Specification for application communicating with multiple services

Reviewer: This is too specific for a usecase.
About the filename: "globbing" should be introduced as term, if you really want it. The use case should be called like the file name. Be consistent with your terms.

## Summary

- **Scope:** Configuration
- **Level:** Developer Goal
- **Actors:** Application developer
- **Brief:** The user wants to specify the port and url for an unknown number of servers, which the application shall use.

## Scenarios

- **Precondition:** kdb is installed.
- **Main success scenario:**

>   - Specification is written and stored system-wide or user specific.

Reviewer: I still don't know what this means.

  - All services which are added in the configuration need to adhere to this configuration specification.
- **Alternative scenario:** None.
- **Error scenario:**

>   - In case services have overlapping configuration an error is yielded.

Reviewer: Do you mean specification here? Please be very careful with the terms, otherwise it is nearly impossible to understand what you mean.

```suggestion
  - In case services have overlapping specification an error is yielded.
```

>   - A sample for such overlapping would be `service/#/port` and `service/_/port`.

Reviewer: This comes from nowhere. First the main success scenario should introduce one way, then alternative/error scenarios can show another way.

  - The user is informed about the problem / error.
- **Postcondition:** The specification allows configuration for multiple services.
- **Non-functional Constraints:** None.

## Example

This configuration allows the user to configure multiple services used by an application.

> It is generic so any service can be configured as dependency e.g. database, message broker, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is generic so any service can be configured as dependency, in the example below database and activemq:
```

**Specification:**

```ni
[service/_/port]
meta:/description = Port of an external service used by an application.
meta:/type = unsigned_short
meta:/example = 8080
meta:/default = 8080

[service/_/url]
meta:/description = Url of an external service used by an application.
meta:/type = string
```

> **Values:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Configuration:**
```

# Use Case: Specification using Globbing

## Summary

- **Scope:** Configuration
- **Level:** Developer Goal
- **Actors:** Application developer

> - **Brief:** Writing generic specification using elektra globbing in key names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Brief:** Writing generic specification using Elektra's globbing in key names.
```

## Scenarios

> - **Precondition:** kdb is installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Precondition:** Elektra is installed.
```

- **Main success scenario:**

>   - Globbing is used in order to make specification generic.

Reviewer: Per actual step only one point. Explanations of terms should be in glossary.

Author: Where I can find that glossary? Or do you mean a separate section in this document?

Reviewer 2: It's `/doc/help/elektra-glossary.md` in the repo

  - Globbing can be achieved by using wildcard characters.
  - The used wildcard characters here are `_` and `#`.
  - In order to write the specification, the kdb tool is used.
  - To create a key, meta-keys are created immediately as well.
  - This command `kdb meta-set spec:/service/_/port type string` creates a key `service/_/port` with metadata `type` indicating the `port` 
  is of type string.
  - `service/_/port` allows us to create any key name starting with `service/` and ending with `/port`.

>   - A possible example is `service/mailserver/port`.

Reviewer: Example only in example.

>   - The usage of this wildcard character `_` is called `globbing`.

Reviewer 2: Try something more like this (intentionally incomplete):

```
- The application developer wants to write a specification for their application's configuration.
- The configuration does not have a fixed set of keys.
  Instead it follows a schema, where the same set of keys may occur under different parents.
- To achieve this the application developer uses globbing expressions in their specification, which creates specification keys that apply to many config keys at once.
```

IMO you could also add the part above as a "Base scenario" and start all other scenarios with
```
- based on the base scenario
```

The the "Main scenario" could be an application that uses arrays (`#`) and the alternative scenario could be for named parents (`_`). The error scenario could then state, if the application tries to use arrays and named parents in a conflicting way, Elektra should report an error.
